Homework for September 8

  The very first step to visiting a website involves getting the necessary hardware. This includes a physical computer as well as infrastructure for accessing the internet. This infrastructure, usually in the form of a modem, allows us to both send and receive information from the internet. The modem encodes the digital data from our computer into modulated electronic signals that can be sent to other modems capable of demodulating these signals and displaying the data in its original digital form. After establishing an internet connection, we can access the internet through a number of applications on our computer. One of these applications is a web browser which allows us to access the world wide web. The difference between the internet and the world wide web is that the internet is a connected mega-network of devices sharing information with one another over smaller networks, and the world wide web is the largest collection of this information.
  
  To access the information on the world wide web, over the internet, we need an interface. This interface is usually a web browser which is a software application that we use on our computers that allow us to access the world wide web. To find information on the world wide web we need an address so we know where to look for it. This address comes in the form of a Uniform Resource Locator which is just a string of characters that identifies specific data on the world wide web. A URL can take many different forms but a common format is http://www.websitename.domain. The first part of this URL is http; http stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol which is a protocol for accessing different information systems on the web, it is at the base of all data exchange that happens between a client (a computer) running a web browser that is requesting information and, on the other side, a server which is responding to the information request. Another version of this is https (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure) which includes a series of security features to protect the information that’s being transferred. One of these features is the encryption of information which prevents it from being accessed by a third party on the way. The second part of our web address is www which stands for world wide web. When we put www at the beginning of our URL, we are telling the web browser to look for the address in the world wide web. The next segment of the web address is the name of the website we will be visiting. This is a unique string of characters specific to the website we are visiting. The domain, or the last part of the web address can take many forms depending on the purpose of the website. After the domain, you have the specific place you want to go on the website. The previous web address stays the same except something is added on to the end to let the web browser know exactly where you want to go once you’re already on the website. When you visit a webpage you enter the URL into the web browser on your computer. Because of all the separate components that make up the URL, the web browser knows where to look for your information on the server. The computer knows how to display this information because the information is structured with HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) which is based on ASCII and therefore understood by all computers.  

  
